#### Map of the City of Toronto: Public Libraries and Population Density

http://jamaps.github.io/toronto_libraries_popdens/toronto_libraries_and_popdensity_2550x1650.png

CC BY-NC-SA 3.0

##### On designing the map:

The objective of this map is to visualize and compare between the spatial distribution of population density and the location and collection size of public libraries in Toronto.  Population density is displayed as a choropleth of dissemination blocks using a sequential colour scheme classified with equal intervals.  This allows the reader to easily discern and compare between areas of different levels of population density.  Circular point symbols, also styled using a sequential colour scheme, show the location of public libraries.  They are classified by a custom classification scheme closely based on quantiles rounded to the nearest 10,000.  Proportional symbols were considered but they blocked too much of the underlying population density data.  The size of the circular symbols are small enough to not hide underlying elements, but still large enough to be prominent on the map and analyze patterns.  Other information included is a boundary layer for Toronto and a base roads layer extracted from OpenStreetMap to provide geographical reference.  The data frame was rotated 17° east of north to coincide with Toronto’s geography.  The map title, legend, north arrow, scale, and attribution are designed to be clear and concise and are arranged on empty space on the map itself (on Lake Ontario) rather than outside the neatline in order to maximize the map area.  The map was built on an 11x17 layout ratio in aims to be accessible to as many readers as possible.  This ratio allows the map to be printed on tabloid size paper, the largest size available on most commercial printers, and this ratio is suitable for most digital screens (computer, tablet, and mobile).  With respect to the open data used to create the map, the map is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0, which allows for free use and distribution of the map as long as there is proper attribution and the license is maintained.  The map was built with QGIS, Illustrator, and Photoshop with data from Statistics Canada, the City of Toronto, and OpenStreetMap.

_ Jeff Allen
